# 3D-Particle-Plot-Training
This is a Point Cloud Neural Network program based on the code provided by Sherap24 and utilizing data provided by Dr. Dutta. 

Setting up the program:

In the repository I have the files CompleteData.xlsx, CompleteData.txt, and OriginalData.xlsx. The text file is the one used by the program as the data input and needs to be correctly pathed in the main function at the bottom. The CompleteData.xlsx is an edited version of the original data set that formats the data in a way that it can be input into the program correctly. Currently the program is only reading 3D coordinates from the dataset and is not utilizing the timestamp column.

Using and Calibrating the Program:

Since the dataset being used is comprised completely of good events, I have a function at the beginning called "Corrupt Event" which will take a random section of the original dataset assigned by the frac_to_[method] variable and manually corrupt events by either using a zeroing method or distortion method. The zeroing method simply takes the events labeled as "bad" and sets a random number of positional values assigned by the "rows_to_zero" variable to 0 to mimic fragmented events. The other method involes distorting a random number of positional values assigned by "rows_to_distort" variable by an amount assigned by the "distortion_scale" variable. The "distortion_scale" variable is a percentage value of the original positional values that will be added or subtracted to the new "bad values" to distort them.

Current Application and Areas for Improvement:

Currently, the method with the highest accuracy in training is the zeroing method which will have an average F1 score of around 0.97. The distortion method averages an F1 score around 0.82 and I have not been able to improve this so far. I have attempted modifying the distortion method to represent a low number of bad events with high distortion and a high number of events with low distortion, both of which providing similar average results. An area for improvement would be to refine the program's process of identifying between a good and bad event. In the case of the zeroing method, there are some events that can be fragmented but still considered good events in which the goal would be to use an algorithm to fill out the rest of that event. However, the program in its current state usually still lists those as bad events because of the fragmentation and would restrict the ability to pass them into any additional algorithm later on. Implementing some sort of aditional condition to the identification process that would perhaps allow the program to analyze the overall structure of the event and still correctly label the desired fragmented good events. This method could be explored similarly for the distortion method to be able to correctly label good events that may have additional noise involved.
